Migrate from Concourse to Github Actions (#2782)
GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules: CI_README.md

## How the pipeline works
The pipeline is written in Github Actions, and is defined in the workflow .yml files in the .github/workflows directory of this repository.  The documentation on those files is located [here](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/building-actions).  Documentation on the substeps is located below.

### Generation & Diffing
The generation / diff pipeline has one Action per downstream.  It generates the downstream at the PR's merge commit and at the left-side parent (`HEAD~`), which guarantees isolation of exclusively the changes made by the PR in question.  It creates commits for the downstreams as before-and-after commits.  Those commits don't have relevant git history - they're not meant to be applied - but they are used in a [two-dot diff](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-comparing-branches-in-pull-requests#three-dot-and-two-dot-git-diff-comparisons).  This means that if there are no changes to the downstream, you'll see an empty diff.  These downstream branches are named `pr-$number-old` and `pr-$number-new` respectively.

### Downstream Pushing

> The downstream pushing pipeline runs on a cron job - every 20 minutes.  It checks a branch called `downstream-master` to find the commit which was most recently pushed to downstreams, then collects all commits since then.  One at a time, it generates each downstream at each commit, building an in-order history.  It pushes all the downstreams directly to master branches, but it does not use the `--force` flag - if the branch goes out of sync, the push will fail without damaging the downstream repository history.

Reviewer: Not every MM commit will be valid to generate with, right? Since not all merges are squash-merge. How will that show up in downstreams?

Author: All merges are squash-merge for the last few months afaict.  Certainly all magician merges are.  I can disable the other kinds of merge in the admin console if you're worried about misclicks.

Reviewer: Oh cool, I wasn't aware that was an admin console feature.

> The downstream pushing pipeline runs on a cron job - every 20 minutes.  It checks a branch called `downstream-master` to find the commit which was most recently pushed to downstreams, then collects all commits since then.  One at a time, it generates each downstream at each commit, building an in-order history.  It pushes all the downstreams directly to master branches, but it does not use the `--force` flag - if the branch goes out of sync, the push will fail without damaging the downstream repository history.

Reviewer: How do we recover when we modify the downstream directly, like with READMEs or vendoring? How often do we expect the Magician to mess up and break itself, particularly if a lot of us are doing stuff at the same time?

Author: >How do we recover when we modify the downstream directly, like with READMEs or vendoring?

Yeah, good question.  The recovery there is just "the next cycle will work", basically.  Since the Action appends commits to the history that's it fetches at the beginning of the run, then only pushes if the new history is fast-forward, the next cycle will have the right commits in the history.

>How often do we expect the Magician to mess up and break itself, particularly if a lot of us are doing stuff at the same time?

It really _shouldn't_.  But the old magician also shouldn't have done that either, so I'd expect about the standard rate of software bugs.  With respect to everyone doing stuff at the same time, that shouldn't cause problems in the new model - I designed with that in mind.

> The downstream pushing pipeline runs on a cron job - every 20 minutes.  It checks a branch called `downstream-master` to find the commit which was most recently pushed to downstreams, then collects all commits since then.  One at a time, it generates each downstream at each commit, building an in-order history.  It pushes all the downstreams directly to master branches, but it does not use the `--force` flag - if the branch goes out of sync, the push will fail without damaging the downstream repository history.

Reviewer: Is `downstream-master` on the downstream? Is it on the MM repo? Is it per-downstream?

Author: On the MM repo, yep!  Do you prefer one per downstream?  That would make the error recovery story a little neater...

## Deploying the pipeline
The code on the `master` branch is used in all cases - if you are making changes to the Actions, your changes will not apply until they are merged in.

## Design choices & tradeoffs
* The downstreams share some setup code in common - especially TPG and TPGB.  We violated the DRY principle by writing separate workflows for each repo.  In practice, this has substantially reduced the amount of code - the coordination layer above the two repos was larger than the code saved by combining them.  We also increase speed, since each Action runs separately.

> * The downstream push doesn't happen immediately.  We caused some delay with the cron-based approach that could have been avoided.  This ensures that two commits which are merged at about the same time will never conflict, since only one copy of the downstream push will be running at a time.

Reviewer: What if the downstream push takes > 20 minutes?

Author: That would be sad!  the second one will either
a) finish after the first one and fail to push since it's non-fast-forward, no big deal.
b) finish before the first one, having completed the entire backlog, and the first one will fail since it's non-fast-forward.
c) finish at exactly the same time as the first one, leading to both of them failing, and the next cycle will have to work.

We'll eventually clear any jams, seems to me.

## How the pipeline works
The pipeline is written in Github Actions, and is defined in the workflow .yml files in the .github/workflows directory of this repository.  The documentation on those files is located [here](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/building-actions).  Documentation on the substeps is located below.

### Generation & Diffing
The generation / diff pipeline has one Action per downstream.  It generates the downstream at the PR's merge commit and at the left-side parent (`HEAD~`), which guarantees isolation of exclusively the changes made by the PR in question.  It creates commits for the downstreams as before-and-after commits.  Those commits don't have relevant git history - they're not meant to be applied - but they are used in a [two-dot diff](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-comparing-branches-in-pull-requests#three-dot-and-two-dot-git-diff-comparisons).  This means that if there are no changes to the downstream, you'll see an empty diff.  These downstream branches are named `pr-$number-old` and `pr-$number-new` respectively.

### Downstream Pushing

> The downstream pushing pipeline runs on a cron job - every 20 minutes.  It checks a branch on the Magic Modules repo called `downstream-master` to find the commit which was most recently pushed to downstreams, then collects all commits since then.  One at a time, it generates each downstream at each commit, building an in-order history.  It pushes all the downstreams directly to master branches, but it does not use the `--force` flag - if the branch goes out of sync, the push will fail without damaging the downstream repository history.  When this happens, `downstream-master` will not be updated, so the next cycle, 20 minutes later, will succeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Magician maintains a tag called `downstream-master` that tracks the Magic Modules commit the downstreams are up to date with.

Every 20 minutes, the downstreams are synced with the MM repo. Commit-by-commit for each commit since `downstream-master`, the Magician runs MM on a local copy of each downstream. Any changes MM generates are committed, and that commit's message will link back to the MM commit it came from.

In effect, this means that each downstream commit will correspond 1:1 to an MM commit. If an MM commit had no changes in a downstream, no commit will be created.

Once a set of downstream commits have been created, the Magician pushes them directly to the downstream's `master` branch. It doesn't use the `--force` flag. If the branch goes out of sync with what MM expects, the push will fail without damaging the downstream repository's history.  When a push fails, `downstream-master` will not be updated, and the commits will be reprocessed in the next sync. 

We expect the failure case to be somewhat uncommon. Downstream repos are generally only edited directly to vendor new libraries or update READMEs or other non-MM-managed files.
```

Reviewer: Does this look correct? This is my current understanding of the process.

I think we can refer to `downstream-master` as a tag, since we don't care about branch mechanics. Additionally, it's a checkpoint so I think it should be called `checkpoint` or something, `sync-checkpoint` is my best suggestion.

Author: Yep, that's all right.  I'll commit that.  I like `downstream-master`, since I think it's more descriptive of what the tag actually does, but I'll switch if your opinion is stronger than mine (or if anyone else agrees it ought to change).

> GitHub CI tools for MagicModules and Google Providers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub CI tools for Magic Modules and Google Providers
```

===

These tools manage the downstream repositories of [magic-modules](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules), and are collectively referred to as "The Magician".

# CI For Downstream/Magic Modules Developers
If you're interested in developing the repositories that Magic Modules manages, here are the things you'll want to know.

## What The Magician Does

> The Magician takes the PR you write against MagicModules and creates the downstream (generated) commits that are a result of your changes.  It posts the diffs created by your changes as a comment on your PR, to aid in review.  When your PR is merged, it updates the downstream repositories with your changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Magician takes the PR you write against Magic Modules and creates the downstream (generated) commits that are a result of your changes.  It posts the diffs created by your changes as a comment on your PR, to aid in review.  When your PR is merged, it updates the downstream repositories with your changes.
```

## Your Workflow

> You'll write some code and open a PR.  The Magician will run the generator and the downstream tests.  If either the generator or the tests fail, you'll see "check failed" status on your PR, which will link to the step that failed.  Once all the generation steps succeed, the Magician will comment on your PR with links to review the generated diffs.  Your reviewer will review those diffs (as well as your code).  Once your PR is approved, simply merge it in - the Magician will ensure that the downstream repositories are updated within about 20 minutes.

Reviewer 2: > The Magician will run the generator and the downstream tests

Where is this defined in the workflow configs? I'm not seeing them.

Author: Ah, I removed the tests to speed it up.  /facepalm.  I'll get it back.

### Downstream Pushing
The Magician maintains a tag called `downstream-master` that tracks the Magic Modules commit the downstreams are up to date with.

Every 20 minutes, the downstreams are synced with the MM repo. Commit-by-commit for each commit since `downstream-master`, the Magician runs MM on a local copy of each downstream. Any changes MM generates are committed, and that commit's message will link back to the MM commit it came from.

> In effect, this means that each downstream commit will correspond 1:1 to an MM commit. If an MM commit had no changes in a downstream, no commit will be created.

Reviewer 3: No more merging all MM commits into a single downstream? Does this mean we should be enforcing squash commits from branches into MM?

Reviewer: I think we should have squash-merge as the only MM merge option by default, and turn on rebase merges when merging long-lived branches like `3.0.0` (where every commit is already a squash merge).

That way, each downstream commit is 1:1 with a PR.

## Deploying the pipeline
The code on the `master` branch is used in all cases - if you are making changes to the Actions, your changes will not apply until they are merged in.

## Design choices & tradeoffs
* The downstreams share some setup code in common - especially TPG and TPGB.  We violated the DRY principle by writing separate workflows for each repo.  In practice, this has substantially reduced the amount of code - the coordination layer above the two repos was larger than the code saved by combining them.  We also increase speed, since each Action runs separately.
* The downstream push doesn't happen immediately.  We caused some delay with the cron-based approach that could have been avoided.  This ensures that two commits which are merged at about the same time will never conflict, since only one copy of the downstream push will be running at a time.
* The downstream push doesn't open PRs against downstreams.  This may inconvenience some existing workflows which rely on the downstream PRs.  This ensures that merge conflicts never come into play, since the downstreams never have dangling PRs.

> * The downstream push is totally disconnected from the differ.  This means that the diff which is approved isn't guaranteed to be applied *exactly*, if for instance magic modules' behavior changes on master between diff generation and downstream push.  This is also intended to avoid merge conflicts by, effectively, rebasing each commit on top of master before final generation is done.

Reviewer 2: > magic modules' behavior changes on master
how could this happen, if the downstream push happens by running on a particular commit?

Author: * PR A and PR B are opened simultaneously.
  * PR A changes the copyright date in each file to 2020
  * PR B adds a new resource.
* PR A is merged seconds before PR B.

The commit from PR B will produce a new file with the 2020 copyright date, even though the diff said 2019.

> * We deleted the submodules.  They weren't useful to us and they were annoying to update - no one ever used them for anything as far as we know - but it's possible there's some long-forgotten workflow that someone is using which will be damaged.

Reviewer 2: > no one ever used them for anything as far as we know

I mean strictly speaking this isn't true, it's just that nobody is using them _anymore_
